33895 button accessibility (#33916)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/html/element/button/index.md

### Icon buttons

> Buttons that only show an icon to represent do not have an _{{glossary("accessible name")}}_. Accessible names provide information for assistive technology, such as screen readers, to access when they parse the document and generate [an accessibility tree](/en-US/docs/Learn/Accessibility/What_is_accessibility#accessibility_apis). Assistive technology then uses the accessibility tree to navigate and manipulate page content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Buttons that only display an icon do not have an _{{glossary("accessible name")}}_. Accessible names provide information for assistive technology, such as screen readers, to access when they parse the document and generate [an accessibility tree](/en-US/docs/Learn/Accessibility/What_is_accessibility#accessibility_apis). Assistive technology then uses the accessibility tree to navigate and manipulate page content.
```

To describe the state of a button the correct ARIA attribute to use is [`aria-pressed`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-pressed) and not [`aria-checked`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-checked) or [`aria-selected`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-selected). To find out more read the information about the [ARIA button role](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/button_role).

### Button styles

> It is best to not override the default focus ring for elements that have focus. If the button styles are overridden, it is important to **ensure that the state change when a button has focus has enough contrast** so that people experiencing low vision conditions will be able to perceive it and people with cognitive differences will understand it. The {{cssxref(":focus-visible")}} pseudo-class can be used to apply styles to an element that has {{cssxref(":focus")}} that the User Agent determines via heuristics that the focus should be made evident on the element, such as when a `<button>` receives keyboard focus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is best not to override the default focus ring for elements that have focus. If the button styles are overridden, it is important to **ensure that the focus state has enough contrast** so that people experiencing low vision conditions can perceive it and people with cognitive differences will understand it.

The {{cssxref(":focus-visible")}} pseudo-class can be used to apply styles to an element that has {{cssxref(":focus")}} only when the User Agent's heuristics determine that the focus should be highlighted, such as when a `<button>` receives keyboard focus. See [[:focus vs :focus-visible](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:focus-visible#focus_vs_focus-visible)](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:focus-visible#focus_vs_focus-visible) for more information.
```
